[Music]
14 simple tips that'll make you an
exceptional singer who doesn't want to
have the voice of an angel right believe
it or not we all have it in us even your
favorite singers don't have an
exceptional range or a strong voice
right away they worked for it whether
you feel like you have the x-factor and
want to be on stage or you just love
singing a couple of simple tips and
techniques can significantly change your
voice you won't need any expensive
courses or lessons and you won't have to
leave your house either so make yourself
comfortable and listen up but before you
become the new Celine Dion don't forget
to click subscribe and turn on that
little notification belt now you won't
miss any bright side updates part one
learning to breathe correctly what we're
not going to start with singing
exercises yep
that's right the first thing you should
work on if you want to be a great singer
is your breathing after all hearing a
singer who is out of breath isn't that
Pleasant is it so you need to master the
art of breathing to make your singing
sound consistent and effortless okay
so before we get to all the breathing
exercises let's decide on the position
we're going to do them in you can either
stand up or sit down just keep in mind
that your posture should be straight
proper posture will help you use all of
your lung capacity to breathe more
easily now let's go back to the
breathing exercises themselves the first
thing you should do is inhale and exhale
both for eight counts try to take deep
breaths from the depths of your stomach
this basic exercise will help you relax
and prepare your lungs for singing
practice
another cool breathing technique you can
do before your warmup is the book method
lie down and put a book on your stomach
sing any note you like as you sing
to make the book rise you can also do a
hissing exercise it's simple
breathe into the count of four and then
breathe out while hissing to the count
of four on your second round breathe in
for six and hiss out for ten the third
time you do this exercise breathe in for
six and hiss out for 12 complete this
exercise by breathing into the count of
two and hissing out to the count of
twelve one of the most important things
you have to learn if you want to be a
good singer is to inhale quickly and
take in a lot of air while doing so
start by breathing in for 10 that the
air is heavy and allow it to fall deeply
within your body then try to do the same
thing again but faster think of your
lungs as balloons that you're filling
with air of course you won't do it
perfectly on your first try so you need
a lot of persistence for this one
continue to do the exercise until you
can take in a lot of air at a quick pace
the more frequently you do the exercise
the easier it'll become for you to
control your breath while singing don't
forget that efficient exhaling is also
essential for a smooth voice practice
your exhaling power by blowing on a
feather your goal is to blow it in the
air with one long breath pushing all the
air from your lungs keep in mind that
while exhaling your abdomen should
return to its normal size and your chest
shouldn't collapse continue to repeat
the exercise until you feel satisfied
with your long and steady exhales and
that's a beginner's guide to breathing
exercises if you want to advance your
skills even more you can find tons of
other breathing exercises online just
remember not to skip this part you won't
believe the difference proper breathing
will make for your singing abilities
part 2 warming up singing is like
exercising before you jump to the main
action you have to warm up and prepare
yourself begin by singing and
or middle range go lower return to the
middle register and then go higher if
you feel like your voice is starting to
strain don't worry
just take a little break and then
continue don't try to hit the highest or
the lowest notes you can think of your
singing is a work in progress so calm
down and treat your voice carefully
don't rush the more you practice the
more your skills will improve
first and foremost certain warm-up
exercises can strengthen your voice so
when a soft melody transitions into a
powerful chorus you'll be able to catch
up and sound fabulous the key word here
is dynamics start singing a certain note
at a comfortable pitch and then go for a
crescendo make the sound louder or a
decrescendo make the sound quieter don't
sing too loudly because you can
seriously hurt your voice start with a
crescendo that comes almost effortlessly
perfect it and then get louder
just like with low and high notes your
singing abilities will grow with regular
practice almost every warm-up in any
music school you can think of starts
with a voice stretching exercise where
you have to sing from dough to sew and
then back to dough again incorporate
this simple trick into your warm-up
routine try to quickly go back and forth
hitting all the notes while you're at it
you can also practice singing pure
vowels at high middle and low pitches
among them are ah as in father e as in
eat ooh as in food or as in could Oh as
in home e as in pin and AH as in pet
finish your warming up by practicing
scales the first thing you have to do
here is identify your range you can find
numerous videos online to help you find
out whether you're a bass soprano tenor
Alto or maybe a baritone when you know
your vocal range
find the notes that cover it on the
piano and practice the scales in every
key most vocal coaches recommend doing
this for
20 to 30 minutes a day for the best
results if you want to expand your range
try to sing low and high notes from
other octaves as tricky as this can be
the additional effort will seriously
change your singing skills and this
concludes our warm-up section once again
don't be lazy and skip it you might
damage your voice only when you're done
with your breathing and warm-up
exercises will it be time for the part
you've been waiting for singing part 3
singing always remember that working on
your vocals regularly is what makes you
grow as a singer practice any chance you
get learn from your favorite songs and
sing them in the shower while you're
driving to school or work or while
you're tidying up
if you're feeling serious about your
singing make full vocal practice part of
your daily routine
pick a certain time for it go through
your breathing and warm-up exercises and
try to learn new songs every week vocal
coaches recommend practicing for one
hour every day it doesn't have to be in
one sitting though you can do 20 minutes
in the morning 20 minutes in the
afternoon and 20 in the evening if
you're feeling ill or tired don't make
yourself practice use this time as an
opportunity for your voice to rest
thanks to the internet you can now find
thousands of tutorials and vocal
training videos for both amateurs and
professionals and a lot of them are
completely free you can easily search
for new techniques and methods to
improve your singing without leaving the
comfort of your home however you should
approach this carefully as not all
online teachers are true professionals
make it a habit to double-check the
person offering the resource making the
tutorial or giving the online lessons if
you don't mind investing in your singing
you can purchase an online singing
course or take lessons from a
professional the second option will be
pricier so think it through and to pick
a legitimate expert before spending your
money this way of learning is totally
worth it though your singing coach will
choose the mo
productive techniques for you according
to your skills and will make sure you're
doing everything correctly if you feel
like you still want a professional to
learn from but don't have any money join
a choir not only will you advance your
singing skills with the help of your
teacher but you'll also meet new people
who are just as interested in singing as
you are in addition you'll gain some
performing experience some choirs
require auditioning before joining so be
ready to give it your best and that's
basically all you need to know to take
your first steps in singing remember
that every single diva you see on stage
today started from scratch and it's
dedication hard work and persistence
that made them who they are so be
patient with yourself and learn and
practice every spare second you have if
you put your mind to it
you'll definitely achieve whatever it is
you're wishing for good luck do you
remember your first singing performance
how did it go tell us in the comments
below while you're at it hit the like
button and click subscribe to stay on
the bright side of life with us
[Music]